add space dev documentation (#55)
deta/space-docs: src/pages/changelog/post-11.mdx

Add the `--open` flag to open the app in your browser automatically.

Behind the scenes, the Space CLI is:

- Generate a project key to allow your app to access it's Deta Base and Deta Drive
- Running each of your micro in a separate process
- Exposing all of your micros through a single entrypoint.

## Customizing the dev command

Of course, each micros might have different requirements, and you might want to customize the `dev command` for each of them.

You can do this specifying the command to run for each micro in your `Spacefile` using the `dev` field.

More information can be found in the [Space CLI documentation](https://docs.deta.sh/docs/cli/space/dev).

## Supporting Power Users

Of course, we know that some of you are power users and want to have more control over your local development environment.

Instead of running `space dev`, you can run each of your micros manually, and then start the reverse proxy yourself.

More information can be found in the [Space CLI documentation](https://docs.deta.sh/docs/cli/space/dev).

## Upgrading to the new version

To upgrade to the new version of the Space CLI, just run the following command:

```
space version upgrade

> ```

Reviewer: We should also mention that this command is new/experimental and that we are still testing it and looking for feedback.

---
title: "Local Development Support"
date: "20 Mar 2023"
layout: "@changelogs"
description: "Lots of new features and improvements to the Space CLI."
---

Since the introduction of Deta Space, we have receive a lot of requests for local development support.
We are happy to announce that the new version of the Space CLI now supports this usecase.

## A new way to run your app locally

From the root of your project, just run the following command:

```
space dev
```

Et voila! You app is now running locally and you can access it at `http://localhost:4200`.
Add the `--open` flag to open the app in your browser automatically.

Behind the scenes, the Space CLI is:

- Generating a data key to allow your app to access the Bases and Drives of your project
- Running each of your micro in a separate process
- Exposing all of your micros through a single entrypoint.

For more information, make sure to check out the [docs](/docs/en/basics/local).

## Triggering Scheduled Action from the CLI

Scheduled actions allow an app to perform certain tasks on a specific interval.

> These tasks can be anything you build into your app, from a cleanup job to automated data aggregation or revalidation.

Reviewer: I don't think we need to explain scheduled actions here

---

> title: "Local Development Support"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "Local Development for Space"
```

date: "20 Mar 2023"
layout: "@changelogs"

> description: "Lots of new features and improvements to the Space CLI."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "Emulate Space locally with the CLI & More."
```

---

> Since the introduction of Deta Space, we have receive a lot of requests for local development support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the introduction of Deta Space, developers have been asking for a better experience when building locally for Space. Whether it is managing keys or coordinating between two separate [Micros](https://deta.space/docs/en/basics/micros#whats-a-micro), local development requires  unnecessary work.
```

> We are happy to announce that the new version of the Space CLI now supports this usecase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

We are happy to announce that the newest Space CLI can now do a lot of the heavy lifting, with a single command: `space dev`.
```

> ## A new way to run your app locally

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## `space dev`: run your Space app locally
```

> From the root of your project, just run the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you've got a Space project you want to run locally, just run the following command, from the root of your project:
```

```
space dev
```

> Et voila! You app is now running locally and you can access it at `http://localhost:4200`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Et voila! Your app is now running locally and you can access it at `http://localhost:4200` (the Space CLI will tell you this).
```

> Add the `--open` flag to open the app in your browser automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also add the `--open` flag to open the app in your browser automatically.
```

Behind the scenes, the Space CLI is:

> - Generating a data key to allow your app to access the Bases and Drives of your project

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Generating and injecting a [Data Key](https://deta.space/changelog/post-6) to allow your app to write data to your project
```

> - Running each of your micro in a separate process

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Running each of your Micros in a separate process
```

> - Exposing all of your micros through a single entrypoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Exposing all of your Micros through a single entrypoint (following the routing in your Spacefile)
```

For more information, make sure to check out the [docs](/docs/en/basics/local).

> ## Triggering Scheduled Action from the CLI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Triggering Scheduled Actions from the CLI
```

> If your Spacefile contains a scheduled action, you can now trigger it locally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your Spacefile contains a [Scheduled Action](https://deta.space/docs/en/basics/micros#scheduled-actions), you can also now trigger it locally for testing.
```

For example, if you have the following Spacefile:

```yaml
micros:
  - name: backend
    src: backend
    engine: nodejs16
    run: "node index.js"
    actions:
      - id: "cleanup"
        name: "Clean Up"
        description: "Cleans up unused data"
        trigger: "schedule"
        default_interval: "0/15 * * * *"
```

> You can trigger the `cleanup` action by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now trigger the `cleanup` action by running the following command:
```

```bash
space dev trigger cleanup
```

Behind the scenes, the Space CLI will:

>     - Send the action event your micro using the same event format as the Space platform

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Send the action event to your Micro locally
```

    - Print the returned response to your console (if any)

> ## Running commands against your Deta Base & Drive

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Running local scripts against your project's Bases & Drives
```

> ## Running commands against your Deta Base & Drive

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Running commands against your Deta Base & Drive data
```

> The `space exec` commands allows you to give a command access to your Deta Base and Drive data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `space exec` commands allows you to give a local command or script access to your project's Deta Base and Drive data. It does so by creating and injecting a [Data Key](https://deta.space/changelog/post-6) as `DETA_PROJECT_KEY` into your local environment.
```

```
space exec --project <project-id> -- node init-database.js
```

Some use cases include:

- testing Base & Drive locally
- pre-filling your projects Bases & Drives with data
- programmatically interacting with Base & Drive

> - …anything you can think of!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- … anything else you can think of!
```

> ## Upgrading to the new version

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Upgrading to the new CLI
```

> To upgrade to the new version of the Space CLI, just run the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use all the new commands, make sure to upgrade to the latest version of the Space CLI, with the following command:
```

```
space version upgrade

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

That's all for now. Thank you for all the feedback — please continue to share! 
```
